How-To: Kubernetes base YAML guide (#748)
radius-project/docs: docs/content/guides/author-apps/kubernetes/howto-yaml-base-support/index.md

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Incremental onboard from existing Kubernetes resources"
linkTitle: "Incremental onboard with YAML"

> description: "Learn how to load a Kubernetes YAML deployment manifest into Radius and have Radius override properties on top of the user-given base resources"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "How-To: Migrate from existing Kubernetes resources"
linkTitle: "Migrate from YAML"
description: "Learn how to migrate to a Radius container from existing Kubernetes YAML"
```

> weight: 200

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weight: 500
```

categories: "How-To"
tags: ["containers","Kubernetes"]
---

This guide will provide an overview of how to:

> - Incrementally onboard your Kubernetes resources using your Kubernetes [Deployment YAML](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/#writing-a-deployment-spec) definitions

Reviewer: When there's only one bullet point let's just make it a sentence.
```suggestion
This guide will provide an overview of how to migrate your existing Kubernetes resources from [Kubernetes YAML](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/#writing-a-deployment-spec).
```

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [rad CLI]({{< ref getting-started >}})
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

### Step 1: Define a Radius application and container

Define a Radius Application resource that will contain your Kubernetes resource container.

> Radius resources, when deployed to a Kubernetes environment, are mapped to one or more Kubernetes objects. For more information, visit [Radius on Kubernetes platform]({{< ref "guides/operations/kubernetes#resource-mapping" >}}).

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//APPLICATION" >}}

### Step 2: Define a base Kubernetes YAML file

You'll need to create a Radius container resource that will consume the information found in your Kubernetes base YAML file.

> #### YAML Deployment template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a file named `kubernetes.yaml` define all the Kubernetes resources that correspond to the new Radius container.

Note that the names of the Deployments, Services, and Config Maps all must match each other and the name of the new Radius container. Any other resources can be named differently.
```

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.yaml" embed=true lang="yaml">}}

### Step 3: Add the Kubernetes base YAML configurations to your Radius application definition

- Standardize object names

> Begin by assuring that your `ServiceAccount`, `Deployment`, and `Service` objects found in your Kubernetes base YAML file have the same name as the Radius container resource that lives inside your application-scoped namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's move the naming part up to the previous step

- Container configurations

> Define your Radius container resource port with the port of your Kubernetes `Service` as well as the image container location that your service is dependent on.

Reviewer: Is defining the port required? cc/ @willtsai @rynowak

- Runtime configuration

> Load your Kubernetes YAML file into your Radius container resource through the `properties.runtimes.kubernetes.base` property which expects a string value containing all your Kubernetes data.

Reviewer: Let's use a different formatting than bullet points and paragraphs. It won't render the indents correctly

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//CONTAINER" >}}

You can now deploy your Radius Application and verify that your Kubernetes objects are created in the desired namespace. 

> ### Step 4: Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Deploy your container
```

> 1. Deploy your application with the command:

Reviewer: This doesn't need to be a numbered list when it's just a single step and then the output

    ```bash

>     rad deploy app.bicep

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    rad deploy app.bicep -a migrate-demo
```

    ```

2. Your console output should look similar to:

```
Building app.bicep...
Deploying template 'app.bicep' into environment 'default' from workspace 'default'...

Deployment In Progress...

Completed            my-microservice Applications.Core/applications
..                   my-microservice Applications.Core/containers

Deployment Complete

Resources:
    my-microservice Applications.Core/applications
    my-microservice Applications.Core/containers
```

To verify and follow the Kubernetes pod creations run `kubectl get pods -A -w` during your deployment and the following output should be seen:

```

> radius-system     controller-585dcd4c9b-5g2c9        1/1     Running            5 (91s ago)     13m

Reviewer: I think there's a missing ``` here

3. Run the following command to verify and follow the Kubernetes pod creations: 
    ```bash

>     kubectl get pods -A -w

Reviewer: Instead of -A let's just do the namespace of the application. And instead of -w let's just do a single output

    ```
    4. Your console output should look similar to:

> ```bash

Reviewer: Outputs should just be ``` without the bash

````suggestion
```
````

radius-system   controller-585dcd4c9b-5g2c9        1/1     Running            5 (91s ago)     13m
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s7n7w   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s4tq8   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-tnvx4   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s7n7w   0/1     Pending            0               0s

> my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-tnvx4   0/1     Pending            0               0s

Reviewer: I think the multiple replicas part might be confusing. Let's just use one replica so we see just one service.

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Incremental onboard from existing Kubernetes resources"

> linkTitle: "Incremental onboard from existing Kubernetes resources"

Reviewer: Link titles should just be a couple words to guide the user in without wrapping to multiple lines

description: "Learn how to load a Kubernetes YAML base manifest into Radius and have Radius override properties on top of the user-given base resources"
weight: 500
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["Kubernetes"]
---

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

### Step 1: Author a Radius Application

Define a Radius Application resource that will contain your Kubernetes resource container.

> > Application-scoped resources are by default generated in a new Kubernetes namespace with the name format `<envNamespace>-<appname>`. This prevents multiple applications with resources of the same name from conflicting with each other, however users can define their own Kubernetes namespace if they desire.

Reviewer: This seems confusing to talk about resources being _generated_ when the user will be providing their own resources. I'd talk about how applications map to namespaces instead.

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//APPLICATION" >}}

### Step 2: Map your Kubernetes base YAML file to a Radius container resource

You'll need to create a Radius container resource that will consume the information found in your Kubernetes base YAML file.

#### Standardize object names

> Begin by assuring that your `ServiceAccount`, `Deployment`, and `Service` objects found in your Kubernetes base YAML file have the same name as the Radius container resource that lives inside your application-scoped namespace.

Reviewer: Instead of having this how-to guide have the user provide their own Kubernetes YAML, please provide YAML to the user to copy and paste.

#### Container configurations

Define your Radius container resource port with the port of your Kubernetes `Service` as well as the image container location that your service is dependent on.

#### Runtime configuration

Load your Kubernetes YAML file into your Radius container resource through the `properties.runtimes.kubernetes.base` property which expects a string value containing all your Kubernetes data.

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//CONTAINER" >}}

> 

Reviewer: Please add a deploy section and a command to verify that your Kubernetes YAML has been deployed.

description: "Learn how to migrate to a Radius container from existing Kubernetes YAML"
weight: 500
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["containers","Kubernetes"]
---

This guide will provide an overview of how to migrate your existing Kubernetes resources from [Kubernetes YAML](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/#writing-a-deployment-spec).

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [rad CLI]({{< ref getting-started >}})
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

### Step 1: Define a base Kubernetes YAML file

In a file named `kubernetes.yaml` define all the Kubernetes resources that correspond to the new Radius container.

Note that the names of the Deployments, Services, and Config Maps all must match each other and the name of the new Radius container. Any other resources can be named differently.

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.yaml" embed=true lang="yaml">}}

### Step 2: Add the Kubernetes base YAML configurations to your Radius application definition

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

1. Container configurations:

    Define your Radius container resource port with the port of your Kubernetes `Service` as well as the image container location that your service is dependent on.

2. Runtime configuration:

    Load your Kubernetes YAML file into your Radius container resource through the `properties.runtimes.kubernetes.base` property which expects a string value containing all your Kubernetes data.

> {{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//CONTAINER" >}}

Reviewer: Could you work on fixing the indentation here? 
![image](https://github.com/radius-project/docs/assets/54363786/a2bf48d1-bbc8-4f99-a55f-fd9393185425)

You can now deploy your Radius Application and verify that your Kubernetes objects are created in the desired namespace. 

### Step 3: Deploy your container

1. Deploy your application with the command:

    ```bash
    rad deploy -a demo
    ```

2. Run the following command to verify and follow the Kubernetes pod creations: 
    ```bash
    kubectl get pods --namespace my-microservice 
    ```

3. Your console output should look similar to:
```
radius-system   controller-585dcd4c9b-5g2c9        1/1     Running            5 (91s ago)     13m
<your-kubernetes-service>   <your-kubernetes-service>-5c464f66d4-s7n7w   0/1     Pending            0               0s
<your-kubernetes-service>   <your-kubernetes-service>-5c464f66d4-s4tq8   0/1     Pending            0               0s

> <your-kubernetes-service>   <your-kubernetes-service>-5c464f66d4-tnvx4   0/1     Pending            0               0s

Reviewer: Could you update this to match what's in basemanifest.yaml?

```

> 

Reviewer 2: sorry I didn't catch this before, but can you add a clean up section as well? something using kubectl, similar to https://edge.docs.radapp.io/tutorials/add-radius/#step-6-clean-up

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Migrate from existing Kubernetes resources"
linkTitle: "Migrate from YAML"
description: "Learn how to migrate to a Radius container from existing Kubernetes YAML"
weight: 500
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["containers","Kubernetes"]
---

This guide will provide an overview of how to migrate your existing Kubernetes resources from [Kubernetes YAML](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/#writing-a-deployment-spec).

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [rad CLI]({{< ref getting-started >}})
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

### Step 1: Define a base Kubernetes YAML file

In a file named `kubernetes.yaml` define all the Kubernetes resources that correspond to the new Radius container.

Note that the names of the Deployments, Services, and Config Maps all must match each other and the name of the new Radius container. Any other resources can be named differently.

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.yaml" embed=true lang="yaml">}}

> ### Step 2: Add the Kubernetes base YAML configurations to your Radius application definition
> 1. Container configurations:
> 
>     Define your Radius container resource port with the port of your Kubernetes `Service` as well as the image container location that your service is dependent on.
> 
> 2. Runtime configuration:
> 
>     Load your Kubernetes YAML file into your Radius container resource through the `properties.runtimes.kubernetes.base` property which expects a string value containing all your Kubernetes data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Define a Radius container

[Radius containers]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/containers/overview" >}}) represent a containerized workload within your Radius Application. You can define a Radius container and reference your Kubernetes YAML in order to deploy and manage it within Radius.

In a file named "app.bicep" add a new Container resource, specifying:

- The container image
- The port(s) your container exposes
- The contents of your Kubernetes YAML file

```

>     {{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//CONTAINER" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//CONTAINER" >}}
```

> You can now deploy your Radius Application and verify that your Kubernetes objects are created in the desired namespace. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Step 3: Deploy your container

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Now that you've defined your Radius Container you can deploy it into your Application.

```

> 1. Deploy your application with the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run [`rad deploy`]({{< ref "rad_deploy" >}}) to deploy your application:
```

    ```bash
    rad deploy -a demo
    ```

> 2. Run the following command to verify and follow the Kubernetes pod creations: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run `kubectl get all` to verify the Kubernetes resources were created:

```

    ```bash

>     kubectl get pods --namespace my-microservice 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl get all -n default-demo
```

Reviewer: @rynowak @willtsai do Kubernetes resources for base support have their namespace set by Radius? Is that also true when explicitly defined in the YAML file?

    ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   
   > Radius deploys app resources into a unique namespace for every app. For more information refer to the [Kubernetes docs]({{< ref "/guides/operations/kubernetes/overview#namespace-mapping" >}}).
```

3. Your console output should look similar to:
```
radius-system   controller-585dcd4c9b-5g2c9        1/1     Running            5 (91s ago)     13m
my-microservice my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s7n7w   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s4tq8   0/1     Pending            0               0s

> my-microservice my-microservice-5c464f66d4-tnvx4   0/1     Pending            0               0s

Reviewer: Could you update this to be the output of `kubectl get all -n default-demo` please?

```
### Step 4: Clean up

1. Run the following command to delete all Pods, Deployments, and Services in the `my-microservice` namespace:

    ```bash

>     kubectl delete -n my-microservice -f ./deploy

Reviewer: @rynowak @willtsai does Radius cleanup the resources from base YAML support with `rad delete`? If not that seems like a big problem for management where we manage deployment but not deletion or declarative deletions when things change.

Reviewer 2: ~~@rynowak and I chatted about this couple days ago. `rad delete` can only delete resources that were deployed using `rad`. Since resources in this how-to are deployed with `kubectl`, `rad` will not be able to delete those resources~~

EDIT: I take that back, this feature uses `rad` to deploy

Reviewer: Perfect, let's use `rad app delete` here to delete the resources instead of `kubectl delete`

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [rad CLI]({{< ref getting-started >}})
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

### Step 1: Define a base Kubernetes YAML file

In a file named `kubernetes.yaml` define all the Kubernetes resources that correspond to the new Radius container.

Note that the names of the Deployments, Services, and Config Maps all must match each other and the name of the new Radius container. Any other resources can be named differently.

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.yaml" embed=true lang="yaml">}}

### Step 2: Define a Radius container

[Radius containers]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/containers/overview" >}}) represent a containerized workload within your Radius Application. You can define a Radius container and reference your Kubernetes YAML in order to deploy and manage it within Radius.

In a file named "app.bicep" add a new Container resource, specifying:

> - The container image

Reviewer: It's kind of confusing how the user needs to specify the container image again. I'd see if there's a way to explain this a little more, and why it's required to specify again.

    ```bash
    rad deploy -a demo
    ```

2. Run `kubectl get all` to verify the Kubernetes resources were created:

    ```bash
    kubectl get all -n default-demo
    ```
   
   > Radius deploys app resources into a unique namespace for every app. For more information refer to the [Kubernetes docs]({{< ref "/guides/operations/kubernetes/overview#namespace-mapping" >}}).
3. Your console output should look similar to:
```
radius-system   controller-585dcd4c9b-5g2c9        1/1     Running            5 (91s ago)     13m
my-microservice my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s7n7w   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s4tq8   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice my-microservice-5c464f66d4-tnvx4   0/1     Pending            0               0s
```
### Step 4: Clean up

1. Run the following command to delete all Pods, Deployments, and Services in the `my-microservice` namespace:

    ```bash
    kubectl delete -n my-microservice -f ./deploy
    ```
2. Run the following command to delete the `my-microservice` namespace:

    ```bash
    kubectl delete namespace my-microservice

>     ```

Reviewer: Let's remove this now that we switch to `rad app delete`

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Migrate from existing Kubernetes resources"

> linkTitle: "Migrate from YAML"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Migrate using Kubernetes YAML"
```

Reviewer: I think this title might be too long and wrap around. I'd prefer to keep the linkTitle on one line. ~3-4 words is usually the max we should go

> description: "Learn how to migrate to a Radius container from existing Kubernetes YAML"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to migrate to a Radius container using existing Kubernetes YAML configurations"
```

weight: 500
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["containers","Kubernetes"]
---

This guide will provide an overview of how to migrate your existing Kubernetes resources from [Kubernetes YAML](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/#writing-a-deployment-spec). 

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [rad CLI]({{< ref getting-started >}})
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

### Step 1: Define a base Kubernetes YAML file

In a file named `kubernetes.yaml` define all the Kubernetes resources that correspond to the new Radius container.

> Note that the names of the Deployments, Services, and Config Maps all must match each other and the name of the new Radius container. Any other resources can be named differently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note that the names of the Deployments, Services, and Config Maps all must match each other and the name of the new Radius container. Any other resources can be named differently.
```

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.yaml" embed=true lang="yaml">}}

### Step 2: Define a Radius container

[Radius containers]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/containers/overview" >}}) represent a containerized workload within your Radius Application. You can define a Radius container and reference your Kubernetes YAML in order to deploy and manage it within Radius.

> In a file named "app.bicep" add any missing parameter that isn't found in your manifest file in your new Container resource. This could range from anything like a new such as:

Reviewer 2: I think there's a typo in the second sentence

- The container image path
- The port(s) your container exposes
- The contents of your Kubernetes YAML file

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//CONTAINER" >}}

> > Radius will override any values found in your Kubernetes manifest file if it finds a value for the same parameter in your `app.bicep` file otherwise it will use the value and only fill in the gaps in your manifest. However if you define a parameter such as  image name in the different container like sidecar, container renderer will not override the image location.

Reviewer 2: This is quite confusing to read, I wonder if there's a way to word this so that it's easier to understand? e.g. "otherwise it will use the value and only fill in the gaps in your manifest" -- which do you mean by "the value"? what do you mean in the "however" sentence?

### Step 3: Deploy your container

Now that you've defined your Radius Container you can deploy it into your Application.

1. Run [`rad deploy`]({{< ref "rad_deploy" >}}) to deploy your application:

    ```bash
    rad deploy -a demo
    ```

2. Run `kubectl get all` to verify the Kubernetes resources were created:

    ```bash
    kubectl get all -n default-demo
    ```
   

>    > Radius deploys app resources into a unique namespace for every app. For more information refer to the [Kubernetes docs]({{< ref "/guides/operations/kubernetes/overview#namespace-mapping" >}}).
> 3. Your console output should look similar to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > Radius deploys app resources into a unique namespace for every app. For more information refer to the [Kubernetes guide]({{< ref "/guides/operations/kubernetes/overview#namespace-mapping" >}}).
 
3. Your console output should look similar to:
```

```
NAME                                   READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/my-microservice-795545bf79-glbhw   1/1     Running   0          21s

NAME                      TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
service/my-microservice   ClusterIP   10.43.177.210   <none>        3000/TCP   18s

NAME                              READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/my-microservice   1/1     1            1           2m41s

NAME                                         DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/my-microservice-795545bf79   1         1         1       21s
replicaset.apps/my-microservice-96dc8569d    0         0         0       2m41s

> ```
> ### Step 4: Clean up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Step 4: Clean up
```

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Incremental onboard from existing Kubernetes resources"
linkTitle: "Incremental onboard with YAML"
description: "Learn how to load a Kubernetes YAML deployment manifest into Radius and have Radius override properties on top of the user-given base resources"
weight: 200
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["containers","Kubernetes"]
---

> This how-to guide will provide an overview of how to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will provide an overview of how to:
```

- Incrementally onboard your Kubernetes resources using your Kubernetes [Deployment YAML](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/#writing-a-deployment-spec) definitions

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [rad CLI]({{< ref getting-started >}})
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

> ### Step 1: Author a Radius Application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Define a Radius application and container
```

Define a Radius Application resource that will contain your Kubernetes resource container.

> > Radius resources, when deployed to a Kubernetes environment, are mapped to one or more Kubernetes objects. For more information visit [Radius on Kubernetes platform]({{< ref "guides/operations/kubernetes#resource-mapping" >}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Radius resources, when deployed to a Kubernetes environment, are mapped to one or more Kubernetes objects. For more information, visit [Radius on Kubernetes platform]({{< ref "guides/operations/kubernetes#resource-mapping" >}}).
```

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//APPLICATION" >}}

> ### Step 2: Map your Kubernetes base YAML file to a Radius container resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Define a base Kubernetes YAML file
```

You'll need to create a Radius container resource that will consume the information found in your Kubernetes base YAML file.

#### YAML Deployment template

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.yaml" embed=true lang="yaml">}}

#### Standardize object names

Begin by assuring that your `ServiceAccount`, `Deployment`, and `Service` objects found in your Kubernetes base YAML file have the same name as the Radius container resource that lives inside your application-scoped namespace.

#### Container configurations

Define your Radius container resource port with the port of your Kubernetes `Service` as well as the image container location that your service is dependent on.

#### Runtime configuration

Load your Kubernetes YAML file into your Radius container resource through the `properties.runtimes.kubernetes.base` property which expects a string value containing all your Kubernetes data.

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//CONTAINER" >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: Group these into a "Step 3: Add the Kubernetes base YAML configurations to your Radius application definition" or something like that. The three subtitles can probably be flattened into a bulleted list representing things that the reader should do or keep in mind when updating their definitions.

### Done

> You can now deploy your Radius Application and verify that your Kubernetes objects are created in the desired namespace. 

Reviewer 2: don't need this if already have dedicated deployment section

Author: Should I remove the snippet as well?

> #### Deployment

Reviewer 2: This should be a dedicated "Step 4"

> Run `rad deploy app.bicep` and your expected outcome should be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

1. Deploy your application with the command:

    ```bash
    rad deploy app.bicep
    ```

```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Your console output should look similar to:

```

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: don't format console output snippets using `bash` - that's only necessary to show snippets indicating a command

Building app.bicep...
Deploying template 'app.bicep' into environment 'default' from workspace 'default'...

Deployment In Progress...

Completed            my-microservice Applications.Core/applications
..                   my-microservice Applications.Core/containers

Deployment Complete

Resources:
    my-microservice Applications.Core/applications
    my-microservice Applications.Core/containers

> ```

Reviewer 2: might need to indent this to render properly aligned with above steps.

> To verify and follow the Kubernetes pod creations run `kubectl get pods -A -w` during your deployment and the following output should be seen:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Run the following command to verify and follow the Kubernetes pod creations: 
    ```bash
    kubectl get pods -A -w
    ```
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    4. Your console output should look similar to:
```

```bash
radius-system   controller-585dcd4c9b-5g2c9        1/1     Running            5 (91s ago)     13m
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s7n7w   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s4tq8   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-tnvx4   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s7n7w   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-tnvx4   0/1     Pending            0               0s

> ```

Reviewer 2: remove `bash` formatting, check that this snippet renders correctly (if not, might need to add tabs to the entire snippet)

## Further reading

> - [Kubernetes authoring resources overview]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/kubernetes/overview" >}})

Reviewer 2: add a reference to these as well: 
- https://edge.docs.radapp.dev/guides/author-apps/containers/overview/#kubernetes
- https://wonderful-plant-020417a1e-748.westus2.azurestaticapps.net/reference/resource-schema/core-schema/container-schema/#runtimes

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Migrate from existing Kubernetes resources"
linkTitle: "Migrate from YAML"
description: "Learn how to migrate to a Radius container from existing Kubernetes YAML"
weight: 500
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["containers","Kubernetes"]
---

This guide will provide an overview of how to migrate your existing Kubernetes resources from [Kubernetes YAML](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/#writing-a-deployment-spec).

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [rad CLI]({{< ref getting-started >}})
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

### Step 1: Define a Radius application and container

Define a Radius Application resource that will contain your Kubernetes resource container.

> Radius resources, when deployed to a Kubernetes environment, are mapped to one or more Kubernetes objects. For more information, visit [Radius on Kubernetes platform]({{< ref "guides/operations/kubernetes#resource-mapping" >}}).

> {{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//APPLICATION" >}}

Reviewer: Let's remove this step entirely. Later on when we run `rad depploy` we can specify `-a demo` to create the application on the fly.

### Step 2: Define a base Kubernetes YAML file

In a file named `kubernetes.yaml` define all the Kubernetes resources that correspond to the new Radius container.

Note that the names of the Deployments, Services, and Config Maps all must match each other and the name of the new Radius container. Any other resources can be named differently.

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.yaml" embed=true lang="yaml">}}

### Step 3: Add the Kubernetes base YAML configurations to your Radius application definition

#### Container configurations

Define your Radius container resource port with the port of your Kubernetes `Service` as well as the image container location that your service is dependent on.

#### Runtime configuration

> Load your Kubernetes YAML file into your Radius container resource through the `properties.runtimes.kubernetes.base` property which expects a string value containing all your Kubernetes data.

Reviewer: Instead of H4 headers I'd make this an ordered list of steps. (1. Define your.... 1. Load your Kubernetes.....)

{{< rad file="snippets/basemanifest.bicep" embed=true marker="//CONTAINER" >}}

You can now deploy your Radius Application and verify that your Kubernetes objects are created in the desired namespace. 

### Step 4: Deploy your container

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Deploy your application with the command:

    ```bash
    rad deploy app.bicep -a demo-migrate
    ```

2. Your console output should look similar to:

```
Building app.bicep...
Deploying template 'app.bicep' into environment 'default' from workspace 'default'...

Deployment In Progress...

Completed            my-microservice Applications.Core/applications
..                   my-microservice Applications.Core/containers

Deployment Complete

Resources:

>     my-microservice Applications.Core/applications

Reviewer: This can be removed once we pull the application resource from app.bicep

    my-microservice Applications.Core/containers
```

3. Run the following command to verify and follow the Kubernetes pod creations: 
    ```bash
    kubectl get pods --namespace my-microservice 
    ```

4. Your console output should look similar to:
```
radius-system   controller-585dcd4c9b-5g2c9        1/1     Running            5 (91s ago)     13m
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s7n7w   0/1     Pending            0               0s
my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-s4tq8   0/1     Pending            0               0s

> my-microservice   my-microservice-5c464f66d4-tnvx4   0/1     Pending            0               0s

Reviewer: Since we're creating the app on the fly this would be a different namespace
